If you plan to study in Australia, it's important to understand and meet your visa requirements.
To study in Australia, most international students will need a student visa (subclass 500). You can check your eligibility for a student visa or explore other visa options to study in Australia via the Department of Home Affairs. It is important to apply for a student visa early to avoid processing delays.
If you currently hold a temporary Australian visa, you must check your visa entitlements to see whether study is permitted. If your visa does not allow study, or if the permitted study duration is shorter than your intended course at RMIT, you may need to apply for a student visa (subclass 500).
You must maintain a valid CoE at all times during your studies.
You must be enrolled in a full-time CRICOS registered program and complete your studies within the expected end date of your CoE. Changes to your enrolment may affect your CoE and visa.
Online and distance study can only make up one third of your course and you must be enrolled in at least one unit/subject delivered face-to-face in each compulsory study period/semester.
Foundation Studies require that you have a minimum of 80 per cent attendance. Student visa holders completing a pathway course have an eight week maximum break between courses. If you have more than an eight-week gap, you need to leave Australia or contact the Department of Home Affairs for their advice on your options.
You must maintain satisfactory academic progress as a condition of your student visa. Failure to achieve this will lead to you being considered "at risk" and can lead to exclusion from your course.
Changes to study plans
RMIT is required to notify the Department of Home Affairs of any changes to your study plans that may affect your visa if you:
fail to commence your course within the commencement period
commence your course but choose to discontinue your studies before completion
are granted a leave of absence (a new CoE will be issued for your return)
fail to re-enrol in your course and your enrolment status becomes inactive
complete your course more than two months before the end date on your CoE.
are discontinued by RMIT for non-payment of fees, unsatisfactory academic progress, or misconduct.
defer your offer at RMIT. If your deferral is accepted a new CoE will be issued for the next available intake.
are issued a new CoE with a new course completion date.
change your course to a different level of qualification (e.g. from a bachelor’s degree to a diploma). If your new course is at a lower level, you must apply for a new student visa, unless changing from AQF level 10 (doctoral degree) to AQF level 9 (master degree).
You, and your family if they are with you, are required to maintain valid Overseas Student Health Cover (OSHC) with an approved provider during your stay in Australia.
Work limitations
International students cannot work before their course starts, unless at the time of applying for your student visa, you held another visa that permitted you to work in Australia.
Once your course begins, you cannot work more than 48 hours a fortnight during compulsory study periods.
Work activities that are a mandatory part of your RMIT course, such as Work Integrated Learning (WIL), do not count towards your 48-hour work limit, if they are included in the CRICOS registration for your course.
You must advise RMIT of your home address and contact details within seven days of arriving in Australia. If you change these personal details during your stay in Australia, you must update your details within seven days.
Streamlined Student Visa Framework (SSVF)
RMIT is a SSVF eligible provider and must assess applications for eligibility to enter RMIT University under SSVF guidelines.
RMIT University acknowledges the people of the Woi wurrung and Boon wurrung language groups of the eastern Kulin Nation on whose unceded lands we conduct the business of the University. RMIT University respectfully acknowledges their Ancestors and Elders, past and present. RMIT also acknowledges the Traditional Custodians and their Ancestors of the lands and waters across Australia where we conduct our business - Artwork 'Sentient' by Hollie Johnson, Gunaikurnai and Monero Ngarigo.